Now we can't access local storage on the server.
That's the issue.
We need a solution.
Who still gets the token though.
And it just happens to be stored on the client so what can we do.
The answer is cookies.
We can use cookies because cookies are sent with HTP requests so we receive cookies when the page is
refreshed it's received by the server.
So what I will do is I will quit the development server and install a new helper package that helps
us work with cookies from javascript.
I'll use the save flag here on NPM install and then the package name is James dash cookie.
This allows us to set and read cookies from our javascript code exactly what we need.
So after it is finished I'll run NPM run death.
And now the goal is to not just store the values in local storage but also stored it in a cookie.
So when we set a token here in local storage I also want to store it in a cookie.
I do this by him or doing something I am a word cookie from Julia's cookie.
This is the package which gives me some utility functions and in any case user offered these local storage
calls.
I can now use cookie and set JWT to the values so to the token you can of course name is key whatever
you want.
And I'll also set my expiration date here to the same date I passed here to my local storage.
We could of course stored as in some concept to reuse it but this is basically what I want to do.
Now I'm storing data in both local storage as well as the cookie.
The idea now is to get the user from the cookie instead of the local storage.
If we're running in it off on the server for dad all expect to get a server payload here and if its
server is true then I want to extract my token and so on differently.
And if it's not true then I want to execute the code I currently have.
So this code here.
So let's cut it and put that into the Altes block here.
Now we need to work on the server side code.
And here I again want to use my cookie I need access to the request it's coming in though so I will
instead accept the request here and only if request is set then I will execute this code here.
So this will be a normal node express request object.
And here I will first of all check if our request does not have a cookie header.
If that's the case then I want to return because there's nothing I can do.
As a next step I want to get my kitty cookie by reaching out to my headers and there to be a cookie.
And now I just need to extract that by splitting the header by semi-colons just happens to be how the
values are stored there.
And that gives me an array of all the different keys.
So to say and there I will simply execute find to find the key that starts with JWT.
For that I need to trim it to remove excess whitespace and then we can use.
Starts with JWT equals JWT equals.
This is just how it will be stored in the cookie and JWT because we used to JWT for setting the token
in the cookie.
This is how we extract this chato UTI token or just chain w token from the cookie.
Now if we fail to do so.
So if we don't get a cookie here a token here then I also want to return otherwise I do have my tokens
all stored in the token constant which I can get from that cookie by now splitting on the equal sign
which still is part of the extract that value.
And then getting the second element in the remaining tray which is the part after the equal sign.
So this stands to token we store it.
I also want to get my expiration date which is stored under expiration date in the cookie.
And I can get it with the same logic I extract the token with.
So I can basically copy that killed off extracting the cookie so JWT expiration date or just expiration
date actually.
This is nazo accessing that cookie splitting by the semi-colon.
Now searching for the key we used which is expiration date when we set to cookie so searching for data
key here.
And now I can also create one long statement and all ready.
Split this by the equal sign which still is part of that and get the second value in the remaining array
which is the actual date.
And now we've got expiration date and token in the server side case to now let's see if that works let's
save this and let's log in because we changed the code.
We need to log in again.
Let's try it out.
I get token not to find 0.
When we set the cookie.
That of course is incorrect here with the token.
I should said assault ID token here.
So let's quickly fix this and let the page reload and that's now try again.
Let's log in again and we now actually end up on an error page so let's see what's wrong here.
The thing that should be wrong is that in inat off we expect to get a request but we're not passing
this but only if the request is set.
We actually tried to access our headers here.
So let's go back to the check of middleware and when we dispatch in it off we can forward the request
which was part of the context we receive here.
You can always check the API docs of context to see what else is inside of it.
So a request is one thing and that's the normal node express request.
However you know we check if process is client and then we dispatch.
So this is actually not where I want to forewards the request.
I guess here I just want to forward NULL instead what we can do is we can remove that if statement and
always dispatch in at all but always forward context request which should be null on the service side
anyways.
So if we do that and we reload this page here still fails.
Let's now log in and see if we still get that error.
And we do let's see what else is wrong.
So I found Dearham the error is very subtle actually here.
We're storing the token and the data in Constans token expiration date.
And the if in Al's case and after the and else case we used these values.
Now technically this will work.
There will always be a token and expiration date constant.
But our javascript code doesn't compile correctly.
So let's create variables a token variable and an expiration date variable right at the start of it
off in and off we then remove the Konst keywords and we simply assign values to the variables we just
find.
And with that our javascript code understands the logic here.
So now that if my reload this page I am already locked in which just looking good does because this
indicates that our approach with the cookie does work and we can actually check the application tab
and it's Wroten def tools and they're under a cookie we see the expiration date and that the cookie
table U-T cookie.
If I delete both and reload.
Now I'm back on the log in page.
So now let's log in again.
And this now seems to work.
Now let's try creating a new post with some dummy values simply just to see if that works.
And that seems to work.
We're not loading the image because it's not there but that works if we go back to our unauthenticated
area here.
We also can navigate around and go back to admen by clicking there.
I'm also still locked in.
So now we implemented a solution where we're taking a bunch of cookies on the server we can access them
there because they are attached to every get request that reaches the server so we can get them from
there.
And if we're in the client we can use local storage.
We could even use the cookie there too but I wanted to show both approaches.
And with that we get an education flow where we use a middleware and where we also use our view x store
as well as average tools to persist the log in St..